add AVP service documentation (#1738)
localstack/docs: content/en/user-guide/aws/verifiedpermissions/index.md

---
title: "Verified Permissions"
linkTitle: "Verified Permissions"
description: Get started with Verified Permissions on LocalStack
tags: ["Enterprise plan"]
---

## Introduction

> Amazon Verified Permissions is a scalable, fine-grained permissions management and authorization service for custom applications.
> Verified Permissions enables you to build secure applications faster by externalizing authorization and centralizing policy management and administration.
> Verified Permissions uses the [Cedar policy language](https://docs.cedarpolicy.com/) to define fine-grained permissions to protect your application's resources.
> 
> Verified Permissions provides authorization by verifying whether a principal is allowed to perform an action on a resource in a given context in your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Amazon Verified Permissions is a scalable service for managing fine-grained permissions and authorization in custom applications.  
It helps secure applications by moving authorization logic outside the app and managing policies in one place, using the [Cedar policy language](https://docs.cedarpolicy.com/) to define access rules.  
It checks if a principal can take an action on a resource in a specific context in your application.
```

Run the following command to create a Policy Store with Schema validation settings set to `OFF`:

{{< command >}}
$ awslocal verifiedpermissions create-policy-store \
  --validation-settings mode=OFF \
  --description "A local Policy Store"
{{< /command >}}

The above command returns the following response:

```json
{
    "policyStoreId": "q5PCScu9qo4aswMVc0owNN",
    "arn": "arn:aws:verifiedpermissions::000000000000:policy-store/q5PCScu9qo4aswMVc0owNN",
    "createdDate": "2025-04-22T19:24:11.175557Z",
    "lastUpdatedDate": "2025-04-22T19:24:11.175557Z"
}
```

You can list all the Verified Permissions policy stores using the [`ListPolicyStores`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/verifiedpermissions/latest/apireference/API_ListPolicyStores.html) API.
Run the following command to list all the Verified Permissions policy stores:

{{< command >}}
$ awslocal verifiedpermissions list-policy-stores
{{< /command >}}

### Create a Policy

To create a Verified Permissions Policy, use the [`CreatePolicy`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/verifiedpermissions/latest/apireference/API_CreatePolicy.html) API.

> First, create a JSON file containing the following policy named `static_policy.json`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a JSON file named `static_policy.json` with the following content:
```

        "entityType": "User",
        "entityId": "alice"
    },
    "resource": {
        "entityType": "Album",
        "entityId": "trip"
    },
    "actions": [
        {
            "actionType": "Action",
            "actionId": "view"
        }
    ],
    "createdDate": "2025-04-22T19:25:25.161652Z",
    "lastUpdatedDate": "2025-04-22T19:25:25.161652Z",
    "effect": "Permit"
}
```

### Authorize a request

We can now make use of the Policy Store and the Policy to start authorizing requests.
To authorize a request using Verified Permissions, use the [`IsAuthorized`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/verifiedpermissions/latest/apireference/API_IsAuthorized.html) API.

{{< command >}}
$ awslocal verifiedpermissions is-authorized \
  --policy-store-id q5PCScu9qo4aswMVc0owNN \
  --principal entityType=User,entityId=alice \
  --action actionType=Action,actionId=view \
  --resource entityType=Album,entityId=trip
{{< /command >}}

You should get the following output, indicating that your request was allowed:

```json
{
    "decision": "ALLOW",
    "determiningPolicies": [
        {
            "policyId": "MfsIseJDeZsr5WUm3tB4FX"
        }
    ],
    "errors": []
}
```

> ## Integration with Cognito

Reviewer: I'm just wondering if we need a specific section on Cognito integration. Are we documenting some specialized setup that works on LocalStack, but may not work on AWS? If the implementation is straightforward and in parity with AWS, then we don't need to have a specific section on this aspect. What do you think?

Author: Good question. It is somewhat straightforward and the same as AWS, but I used the documentation for now to showcase this is possible to do. I think testing regular policies could be done using Cedar itself, but the custom AWS integration with Cognito and us supporting it is what is "bringing value". This could also be a proper sample maybe?
If you think it does not make sense, I'm fine with removing it

Also, there wasn't really a proper tutorial online to set this up even for AWS, otherwise I would have sent the users towards it.

{{< /command >}}

You should get the following output, indicating that your request was allowed:

```json
{
    "decision": "ALLOW",
    "determiningPolicies": [
        {
            "policyId": "cF8X6thXBt5uCANQ8GAEK2"
        }
    ],
    "errors": [],
    "principal": {
        "entityType": "User",
        "entityId": "us-east-1_84e2d3fb5af24aba9827b82a6971b17f|3ab9e816-80ac-47ea-bd5f-9e29f97673ce"
    }
}
```

Additionally, you can have more advanced and complex scenarios using Cognito attributes and claims to provide more context to your authorization request.
Your policy can also use those additionals attributes to provide more fine-grained authorization.

## Current limitations

> LocalStack currently has a few limitations in its emulation capabilities:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- No Schema validation when creating a new schema using `PutSchema`, and no Policy validation using said schema when creating policies and template policies.

> - Only Cognito is supported as an IdentitySource, external OIDC providers are not yet implemented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Only Cognito is supported as an `IdentitySource`, external OIDC providers are not yet implemented.
```
